Truly, the American Dream has been changed. What was once a two-story home with a white picket fence, is now a two man team, in a dorm room, coding the next billion dollar enterprise. With notable success stories like Mark Zuckerberk, Elon Musk, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, a fad has been born. It’s cool to start a company, idolize Steve Jobs, move to Palo Alto and hock your idea to VC firms. The question must be asked though: Are we really solving problems or are we satiating our need to be apart of a trend?

With more than 1.3 million apps available for Android and 1.2 million for iOS. It is abundantly clear that the market, as a whole, is saturated. At this point, “there’s an app for that” has become a colloquialism. Nearly every imaginable desire has a complimentary application. And yet, every month, 60 thousand new programs are added to the App Store. So, if creating something new is so rigorous, how are so many more apps being made? Simple, either those apps satiate a more specific need or they are a lousy app. 

The future is what is interesting. Undoubtably, new technologies will make way for additional services and networks, but can the rate of major technological advancements outpace the longevity of the startup fad? With the majority of internet access coming from mobile devices, one of the best footholds for growth has become the implementation of new hardware on cell phones. Every time a company, like Samsung, Apple or Xiaomi, adds new hardware to one of their products, whole industries are born. For example, the front facing camera allowed Snapchat to become a multi-billion dollar company! Without the ability to take a selfie, Snapchat would, probably, cease to exist. That being said, new hardware is only released so often. Per generation, only a handful of companies rise to the top, the rest go unnoticed. 
 
An undeniable race to create is making for a “entrepreneur bubble,” similar to the housing or dot com bubble. At some point, soon, the huge influx of new products and services will become to niched and investors will stop seeing the value of investment. Simply, differentiation can only go so far before the service provided is too limited either in function or market. But, for now, the bubble continues to grow. Last year, venture capitalists alone, invested a record breaking $19.8 billion in software companies. The bubble will burst when the returns of investment gets too low. VC firms and angels will become much more selective and, as a result, the river of funds will become a frugal trickle. 

The cool factor of the startup fad is rooted in the potential of becoming rich. And, the formula for becoming rich has been oversimplified in the public eye: Have a good idea, make it, sell it for a ludicrous amount of money, rinse and repeat. This perception is fundamentally flawed for two reasons. Fist, anyone running a company will tell you, the process of making an idea a functional reality is nearly impossible. Second, and more importantly, innovation with a foundation of greed doesn't succeed. The strongest startups take years to be profitable and in the interim, sacrifice everything to provide for their users. The alternative, a company that panders crap will have a devoted user base of zero. A mantra for success is a mantra of selfless dedication to the users. No exceptions. 

So, the question becomes: how do I make a successful company? The answer: who knows!? If a foolproof model existed, everyone would know. No book, website, or seminar produces the golden ticket. The best you can do is obtaining the framework not to fail miserably. Make ethical decisions, be kind and insightful, spend frugally, succeed a lot, fail even more, and most of all, ask yourself, “does anyone really need this?”

